got a question from a shrah patreon
supporter if you want to you can click
on the link below this video you can
join patreon pay $1 and join the
conversation
got a question from mouth Shara boils
down to saying look if as a vegan you're
in a situation where your grandmother
offers you cake they she's baked a cake
for you but it's a non vegan cake what
is the point in refusing given that we
know there's no real cause-and-effect
outcome it's not as if somewhere a
chicken is being liberated from a cage
because you're refusing to eat this
chocolate cake grandmother baked you
give him that there isn't some kind of
direct karmic consequence from this
she's not asking what is the harm but
she's asking if we refuse are we being
dogmatic if we refuse are we merely
standing up for our own personal purity
is this become a you know form of
personal purity abstracted from maybe
fetishized above and beyond the
practical real world sphere of vegan
politics or even vegan diet and she
mentions that when she's in a situation
such as being in a restaurant and they
accidentally put egg in the noodles she
feels so disgusted she couldn't bring
herself eat them although I don't know
why I guess she thought the thing to do
was to eat them even though they had egg
you know she is she's wondering is this
or is there a point diminishing returns
after which you know really abiding by a
vegan diet maybe does more harm than
good in these various ways uh my answer
is not about personal purity but it's
about persons and personhood it's about
being a person all right my answer is
not about the animals not in this case
not in these circumstances my answer is
not about karma or a magical idea of
these things having this consequence
this problem gets the core of who are
you as a personal as a human being as a
person what kind of respect and dignity
do you demand from others around you I
mean if your grandmother
made this cake for you that's what gives
it this moral way she's trying to stay
nice for you doesn't she deserve to know
why it's not nice doesn't she deserve to
know about what veganism is and why it
matters to you so much
now some people are gay and they decide
to never tell the grandparents that
they're getting they just make that
decision as think they think of
themselves ultimately I don't love this
person enough to be honest with them you
know it's what it is it's kind of
contempt as a judgement call we all have
to individually make maybe your
grandmother is going deaf maybe your
grandmother doesn't really have a
language in common with you you know
maybe you speak English and she mostly
speaks Romanian or something you know a
lot of families are in that situation
there can be barriers that would make
explaining veganism to your grandparents
very difficult or explain the fact that
you're gay your grandparents very
difficult if you don't love them enough
if you don't respect them enough to
explain that you're vegan or spend
you're gay that's a judgment call but
ultimately it's an expression of
contempt alright and if they're gonna
feed you non vegan food that's an
expression of contempt going the other
way unless they're unaware right unless
you've never told them then it's on you
then it's your fault right because you
never you never explained to them the
rules you live by what it means or why
it matters to you so much right so
there's an obligation on you otherwise
you can't you can't blame them for their
actions so this is about who you are as
a person it's not about a magical dotted
line that goes from the eggs that are
invisibly in that cake to a bird an
occasion to the side of the world
although I mean there really is a sense
in which I believe in and preach in that
dotted line I think that you know on a
deep level part of what we're doing as
vegans is trying to take responsibility
for the consequences of our actions but
that ethic ultimately is a tragic one
because every day you know you may
live in an apartment where non-vegan
ingredients glue the wallpaper to the
wall you drive a car where the tires and
even the tarmac can take not vegan
ingredients that these amazing examples
of the extent to which as vegans we pay
for and consume non vegan things so
there's a tragic element to that but we
can say at least we're trying at least
we're trying to take responsibility for
the consequences of our actions and
trying to control and limit and minimize
those negative knock-on effects we're
actually sure so there's a sense in
which I believe in the dotted line and I
appreciate the dotted line but in
response to this specific question my
answer is not about the animals
it's not about ecology it's not even
about your health your health matters
it's about dignity respect and love for
you as a human being don't you don't you
have any dignity don't you have any
pride in who you are not who you are as
a vegan just who you are right this is
not food for you you know it's like when
vegans get into would you eat roadkill
is nothing beneath my dignity your
dignity you've got to draw a line and I
would say even if your grandmother is
deaf and doesn't understand English and
you can't take up that issue with her
you can just leave the cake on the plate
and not eat it I can imagine being in
the situation I've been in business
meetings you know it was a big banquet
hall and they're putting out non vegan
food and I'm not in a position to
lecture hire people at that meeting
about veganism but I'm not gonna eat it
I'm not gonna touch it and when people
ask
I'll tell them why but sure you could be
in a hierarchical situation where people
are unequal and you're not gonna lecture
anyone let them know and I don't have
any kind of personal relationship I
don't have any love or beautiful respect
for these other people at this meeting
and they don't have any love respect for
me so no issues are there but sure this
is this is your grandmother and you're
her granddaughter I mean you know you're
worth it
we're not such dogs that we just have to
eat any scraps that are left on the
and floor right we're in a position to
refuse as vegans as loved ones as family
members as human beings and if you
refuse and your family doesn't
understand doesn't want to understand
they treat you with contempt then that's
on them
right you've got to stand up for your
own dignity in that situation you've got
to ask them to respect you and if you
put in the time and energy to explain to
them what veganism is why it matters you
so much that is really an expression of
love and respect from you to them if you
didn't do that if you just regarded them
as beneath contempt as people who are
never going to understand who are not
worth explaining to what you're really
saying is it's not even worth it to help
them understand who I am